# Processing Greek corpora for the riddle solver

![Michelangelo's Delphic Sibyl, Sistine Chapel / Public Domain](/media/delphic_sibyl.png){caption=1}

[Pseudo-Sibylline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sibylline_Oracles)[^1]
oracles contain hexametric poems written in Ancient Greek. These
*oracula* were mainly composed in 150BC - 700AD to twelve distinct
extant books. They were circulating and quite famous among the
Judaeo-Christian community at that time.

They shouldn't, however, be too much confused with the earlier
[Sibylline books](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sibylline_Books)[^2].
Sibylline books contained religious ceremonial advices that were
consulted by the selected priests and curators in the Roman state, when
it was in deep political trouble. The collection of the original
Sibylline books were destroyed by different accidental events and
deliberate actions in history.

Pseudo-Sibylline oracles, on the other hand, contain Jewish narrative of
the human history contrasted to the Greek mythology and to the
chronology of the other great ancient empires. Other intention of the
material is to support evolving Christian doctrine and interpretation of
the prophesies. Prophesies were mostly grounded on Jewish tradition, but
surprisingly some pagan world events also came to be interpreted as
signs of the coming Messiah. Sibyl, as a woman prophetess, child of Noah
in the Pseudo-Sibylline lore, has a unique character crossing over the
common borders in several ancient religions and art.

Good introductions to the Pseudo-Sibylline oracles can be found from
these two books:

* Sibylline Oracles in [The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, Volume I](https://books.google.fi/books?id=TNdeolWctsQC)[^3] by J. J. Collins
* Part 1 in [The Book Three of the Sibylline Oracles and Its Social
Setting](https://books.google.fi/books?id=Zqh8ZQZqnWYC)[^4] by Rieuwerd
Buitenwerf

Some material in the Pseudo-Sibylline oracles contain cryptic puzzles,
referring to persons, cities, countries, and epithets of God for
example. These secretive references are often very general in nature,
pointing only to the first letter of the subject and its numerical
value. Solving them requires, not so much of mathematical or
cryptographical skills in modern sense, but a proper knowledge of the
context, both inner textual and historical context.

Most of the alphanumeric riddles in the oracles can already be taken as
solved by various researchers. Some of the riddles are still problematic
and open for better proposals. Better yet, few of these open riddles are
more complex and specific enough so that one may try to solve them by
modern programmable tools.

As an independent researcher not associated or affiliated by any
organization, the sole motivation and purpose of mine in the chapters
one and two is to provide a reusable and a testable method for
processing and analysing ancient corpora, especially detecting
alphanumeric patterns in text.
