# Natural language processing

Programmatical approach to solve the riddles requires huge Greek text
corpora. Bigger it is, the better. I will download and preprocess
available open source Greek corpora, which is a quite daunting task for
many reasons. Programming language of my choice is
[Python](http://python.org)[^5] for it has plenty of good and stable
open source libraries required for my work. Python is widely recognized
in academic and scientific circles and well oriented to the research
projects.

I have left the most of the overly technical details of these chapters
for the enthusiasts to read straight from the commented code in
[functions.py](https://git.io/vAS2Z)[^6] script. By collecting the large
part of the used procedures to the separate script maintains this
document more concise too.

In the end of the task of the first chapter, I\'ll have a word database
containing hundreds of thousands of unique Greek words extracted from
the naturally written language corpora. Then words can be further used
in the riddle solver in the second chapter.

::: {.note}
::: {.admonition-title}
Note
:::

Note that rather than just reading, this, and the following chapters can
also be run interactively in your local [Jupyter
notebook](https://jupyter.org/)[^7] installation if you prefer. That
means that you may test and verify the procedure or alter parameters and
try solving the riddles with your own parameters.

Your can download independent Jupyter notebooks for [processing
corpora](https://git.io/vASwM)[^8], [solving
riddles](https://git.io/vASrY) [^9], and [analysing
results](https://)[^10].

You may also run code directly from [Python
shell](https://www.python.org/shell/) environment, no problem.
:::
